# portfolio-project-1
This project to estimate new product volume forecast within FMCG world
It is important for almost every FMCG brand to keep innovating and bringing in new products. But very few product launches in the FMCG category are counted as successful (criteria may differ, for e.g., continued listing in market after a year, making the target value and volume in year 1 and onwards). If we combine it with the amount of time, effort, capital that goes in NPD launches, it can have a big effect on P/L account. Usually, a lot is riding on the success of these initiatives.
**Challenge in a nutshell:** How can we improve the success of the NPDs by ensuring the best performing NPDs are launched?
</n>
**Objective:** Estimate a realistic volume (units) that can be achieved with the given NPD and launch plan by benchmarking it against historical sales
**Data and variable definitions:** Data for this problem will be sourced from many places. For e.g., past sales performances, past NPD launches and performances, NPD characteristics like, category, format, flavour, price, size etc., user reviews on product tests, Nielsen Bases test results and parameters among many others.
**Data Sources:** There are multiple vendors within the industry that provide the data required for modelling at a cost. For e.g., most FMCG businesses license for sales data from Nielsen, Kantar, IRI, Brand Bank and all of these can provide extensive quantity of data at a very granular level. For e.g., Nielsen will provide time series sales data for own brand and competitors at an SKU level which will have qualitative information about the products as well including but not limited to brand name, size, flavour, year of launch etc. Consumer panel vendors like Kantar will provide time series data at a granular level for own brand and competitors for consumers behaviour for past NPD for example, trial rates, repeat rates, penetration, demographics etc.
**Output variable/s:** Estimated units, Suggested Price
**Problem Type:** This problem is Predictive, Supervised and Parametric. The best recommended technique (that has been successfully used in similar forecasting problems) is multi – variate regression modelling.
**Use purpose:** The model produced will be for repeated use purpose for key stakeholders internally within Marketing, Logistics, Demand planning, Sales and Insights and Reporting functions.
